# Swarm Intelligence-BirdFlockingFormation
### Netlogo simulation and result

Birds, like many other social animals, demonstrate very structured and complex patterns in their flights collectively without any central coordinating body in a self-organizing way. The theory of swarm intelligence has extended this robust biological insight into artificial systems. Natural Birds flock together broadly in two basic formations- clustering and ‘V’ pattern. Craig Raynolds’s simulation of the artificial birds in 1987 has explained how simple-rule based interactions among individual boids generate complex flocking pattern. Birds flocking is based on two primary factors: the underlying physics of birds’ physical properties and the perception mechanism. This study is focused on understanding how the perception mechanism of an individual bird, represented by the input from its visual parameters such as vision angle, vision range, visual obstruction, and the number of birds flocking impact the flocking pattern emergence. This study sweeps the perception parameters to enable each boid to define continuously its flockmates and nearest neighbor, and follow the steering drive. It runs computer simulation on an agent-based modeling software and presents the artificial birds with quantitively different visual perception parameters. The study finds that clustering formation is generally the result of a wide field of vision of each artificial bird, and a drive to seek an unobstructed view is critical for forming ‘V’ formation.
